This is the README file for the rivendell-install package.

Rivendell-install is a set of scripts and related files for installing
the Rivendell Radio Automation System on RHEL-derived Linux distributions
(such as RedHat Enterprise Linux, CentOS or Scientific Linux).

RATIONALE
---------
Rivendell on RHEL-derived distributions has customarily been installed
by means of 'appliances' --i.e. customized versions of the distro's installer
image that contain the necessary additional software and configuration
scripts.  These appliances use 'Kickstart', an embedded utility that allows
installations to be tailored to a specific set of canned instructions and
configurations.  This approach has proven to be rather brittle in several
respects. The intended use case for Kickstart is that of deploying a set,
static system configuration onto a known hardware platform.  Using it as an
'extension' of the RHEL installer is arguably an abuse of this intent.
In particular, Kickstart does not cope well when confronted with target
hardware that varies significantly from the original 'prototype' system
for which the Kickstart instructions were originally designed --e.g. those
with significantly different disc capacities.  A particular bugbear in this
regard has been the advent of systems with BIOSes that implement the
Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI); creating a Kickstart
implementation that can reliably deal with both UEFI and traditional MBR
boot setups has proven to be well-nigh impossible.  A second drawback of the
Kickstart approach is maintenance overhead: creation of an updated
appliance (such as when the distro provider releases a new 'point' release
with support for new hardware) is a time consuming, high overhead task
that requires extensive testing of the revised applicance before release.

With all of the above in mind, the scripts in this package take a new approach.
Installation of the base RHEL distribution is now done using the standard
installer images.  Once that base installation is complete and certain
prerequisites met (see below), the installer script is then run, which
downloads all necessary packages and performs the required configuration
to turn the 'vanilla' installation into a Rivendell workstation.  This has
two primary benefits over the 'appliance' model: the script is independent
of the particular point release of the target system (thus largely
eliminating maintenance overhead), while downloading the Rivendell packages
from the 'live' online repositories means that whatever the 'current'
Rivendell version is will be the one installed.


PREREQUISITES
-------------
Before running the installation script, the following requirements must be
met:

1) The target distribution must be installed and running in GUI desktop mode.

2) Networking must be configured and the system able to access the Internet.

3) All pending OS updates must be applied ('yum update').

4) SELinux must be operating in 'permissive' or 'disabled' mode.


INSTALLATION
------------
To run the installation script, create a temporary directory on the target
system and copy contents of the directory in this package that is appropriate
for the distro version --e.g. 'centos7/' for a CentOS 7.x system) into that
directory. Then, 'cd' into that directory and do (as root):

    ./install_rivendell.sh

The script will run several checks and (possibly) report on problems found.
Once any detected problems are corrected, Rivendell will be downloaded and
installed without any further operator intervention needed.

